<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="historical_data" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title>Historical data collection</title>
    <titlealts>
        <navtitle>Historical data</navtitle>
    </titlealts>
    <shortdesc>In Grafana, you can view historical data using absolute and relative time
        ranges.</shortdesc>
    <refbody>
        <section id="section_n33_prq_syb">
            <p>Viewing historical data is a common practice across organizations for various
                purposes. The importance and use of historical data are significant in
                decision-making, research, analysis, and planning. Analyzing historical data
                provides valuable insights into the status, usage, performance, and health of
                various resources.</p>
            <p>You can also access cached metric data for queries, data sources, and timestamp
                combinations that have already viewed by other user on Grafana. This means that if
                any user requests metrics data for the same query, datasource, and timestamp, the
                cached data can be displayed faster than a service call from DDS. If data for a
                particular timestamp is not found in the cache, it will be fetched by a service call
                from DDS. This feature can save you time and provide a faster experience accessing
                metric data.</p>
            <note id="note_rh5_h4x_kdc" type="caution">When you view data over extended time ranges,
                the system may require considerable CPU resources on the host.</note>
            <p props="html">The following example shows the percentage of time during the report
                interval that the system job or enclave was waiting for a processor by specifying
                absolute time:</p>
            <p props="html"><object data="images/historical_data_absolute_time.mp4"
                    outputclass="video"/></p>
            <p props="html">Similarly, you can collect the data for the percentage of time delay for
                a processor by specifying the relative time range:</p>
            <p props="html"><object data="images/historical_data_relative_time.mp4"
                    outputclass="video"/></p>
        </section>
    </refbody>
</reference>
