<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="importing_dashboards" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title>Importing Dashboards created in RMF Performance Monitoring</title>
    <titlealts>
        <navtitle>Importing dashboards</navtitle>
    </titlealts>
    <shortdesc>This task describes how to import dashboards and the associated data sources created
        in RMF Performance Monitoring in the RMF application. </shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <prereq id="prereq_oxf_ywq_pyb">
            <p>You must have completed the following task:<ul id="ul_frm_gw3_ryb">
                    <li conref="conref.dita#conref/li_qbm_nw3_ryb"/>
                </ul></p>
        </prereq>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Go to <menucascade>
                        <uicontrol>Apps </uicontrol>
                        <uicontrol>IBM RMF</uicontrol>
                    </menucascade> and navigate to the Import Dashboards from RMF Performance
                    Monitoring section.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Verify the <uicontrol>Destination folder</uicontrol> path displayed under the
                    section heading.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Go to PM Dashboards</uicontrol> to review existing RMF
                    Performance Monitoring dashboard files before importing.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Upload File</uicontrol> area, drag and drop
                        <filepath>.po</filepath> dashboard file or click the upload zone to browse
                    for the file manually.</cmd>
                <info>
                    <note id="note_kmy_bfs_33c">The Data sources defined in RMF Performance
                        Monitoring dashboards are imported without credentials. After import, update
                        each data source with valid credentials if the DDS requires authentication
                        where required.</note>
                </info>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <result id="result_wwb_kfs_33c">
            <p>The dashboards exported from the RMF Performance Monitoring are successfully imported
                into the RMF application. </p>
        </result>
    </taskbody>
</task>
