<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="plugin_config" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title>Plugin configuration</title>
    <shortdesc>If you feel the IBM® RMF for z/OS Grafana plugin consumes too much memory after
        plotting charts and reports or working with time-series data, you can configure it to
        optimize its performance.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>You can modify the <filepath>../datasources/rmf-plugin-config.yaml</filepath> file by
            changing the cache settings to ensure that the RMF for z/OS plugin is working
            efficiently and not taking up excessive memory. You must restart the Docker container
            once the configuration is modified.</p>
        <p>The following table describes the logging and cache settings in the configuration
            file:</p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_bl4_htt_qzb">
            <tgroup cols="5" align="left">
                <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
                <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
                <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4"/>
                <colspec colname="newCol5" colnum="5"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Sections</entry>
                        <entry>Parameters</entry>
                        <entry>Descriptions</entry>
                        <entry>Default value</entry>
                        <entry>Note</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry morerows="1">logging</entry>
                        <entry>trace_errors</entry>
                        <entry>This parameter logs the errors in the Grafana log file; however,
                            these logs do not include request and response information.</entry>
                        <entry><systemoutput>true</systemoutput></entry>
                        <entry/>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>trace_calls</entry>
                        <entry>This parameter logs all errors in the Grafana log file and includes
                            information about the request and response, if applicable. <p>You can
                                change the value to <systemoutput>true</systemoutput> to include
                                request and response details and provide a more comprehensive and
                                informative log for better analysis and resolution.</p></entry>
                        <entry><systemoutput>false</systemoutput></entry>
                        <entry/>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry morerows="2">cache_settings</entry>
                        <entry>metrics_cache_size_mb</entry>
                        <entry>This parameter specifies the size of the metrics cache for the
                            plugin.</entry>
                        <entry><systemoutput>512</systemoutput></entry>
                        <entry/>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>query_model_cache_size_mb</entry>
                        <entry>This parameter specifies the size of the cache (in MB) used to store
                            request information for streaming timeline data. </entry>
                        <entry><systemoutput>512</systemoutput></entry>
                        <entry morerows="1">Usually, the default size is sufficient for the
                            pre-defined dashboards, and you need to change it only if additional
                            user-defined dashboards and timeline panels are specified in your
                            organization that uses the RMF for z/OS plugin.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>interval_offset_cache_size_mb</entry>
                        <entry>This parameter specifies the size of the cache (in MB) used to store
                            the data interval and time offset for streaming timeline data.</entry>
                        <entry><systemoutput>64</systemoutput></entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </conbody>
</concept>
