<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="prereq_zosmf" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title>Prerequisites for accessing Grafana dashboards on <ph
            conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/></title>
    <titlealts>
        <navtitle>Prerequisites</navtitle>
    </titlealts>
    <shortdesc>Before you can start working with Grafana dashboards through <ph
            conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/>, there are some prerequisites that you need to
        complete.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <p>The following sections describe each prerequisite in detail:</p>
        <section id="section_lcl_zvl_h1c">
            <title>Configure <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/></title>
            <p>When installing z/OS, <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/> is automatically
                installed as a fundamental component of the operating system. However, to use its
                features, you must configure the <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/>
                nucleus on your system and add core and optional services. This enables you to take
                advantage of the many benefits that <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/>
                offers. For more information, refer to the <xref
                    href="https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/zos/3.1.0?topic=facility-zos-management-configuration-guide"
                    format="html" scope="external"><cite conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_config"
                    /></xref>.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_u1d_2dh_h1c">
            <title>Install Grafana</title>
            <p>You must install Grafana v10.0 or later.</p>
            <p>For more information, refer to the <xref
                    href="https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/installation/"
                    format="html" scope="external">Grafana</xref> documentation for detailed
                instructions on installing Grafana and its dependencies and starting the Grafana
                server on your system.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_xjc_hdh_h1c">
            <title>User administration</title>
            <p>You must review the default user management settings provided by the Grafana server
                to determine if you need any additional permissions to be added for the users.</p>
            <!--<p>Also, to access the Grafana server from the <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/>, you must create a user profile with the necessary role assigned by using the <systemoutput>TSO ID</systemoutput> of the <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/> user in lowercase format in the Grafana server.</p>-->
            <p>For more information, refer to the <xref
                    href="https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/user-management/"
                    format="html" scope="external">User Management</xref> section of the Grafana
                documentation.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_a2x_kdh_h1c">
            <title>Configure JSON Web Token (JWT) support on <ph
                    conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/></title>
            <p>You must configure the <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/> server to build
                and use JSON Web Token (JWT) tokens. Because, by default, the JWT function is turned
                off on the <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/> server. You can turn on the
                JWT authentication by modifying the server's configuration files directly. Once
                enabled, the JWT function allows you to use JWT tokens to authenticate and authorize
                user access to the Grafana through the <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/>
                server.</p>
            <p>When configuring <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/> JWK files, it is
                essential to use the <parmname>jwksUri</parmname> parameter. This parameter
                specifies a URL for the JSON Web Key service, which is necessary for building the
                JWK files.</p>
            <p>The format of the <parmname>jwksUri</parmname> parameter is as follows:</p>
            <p><filepath>https://${hostname}:${port}/jwt/ibm/api/zOSMFBuilder/jwk</filepath></p>
            <p>For example, if your <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/> server is running
                on <xref href="https://abc.com:12345" format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://abc.com:12345</xref>, then the value of <parmname>jwksUri</parmname>
                is:</p>
            <p><filepath>https://abc.com:12345/jwt/ibm/api/zOSMFBuilder/jwk</filepath></p>
            <p>Where,<ul id="ul_ads_b2h_h1c">
                    <li><filepath>abc</filepath> is the hostname where the <ph
                            conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_short"/> server runs.</li>
                    <li><filepath>12345</filepath> is the port number.</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>You must save the content of <parmname>jwksUri</parmname> as the
                    <filepath>jwks.json</filepath> file and place it in the following directory:</p>
            <p><filepath>/PATH/TO/jwks.json</filepath></p>
            <p>For information about enabling the JWT function, refer to the <xref
                    href="https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/zos/3.1.0?topic=configurations-enabling-json-web-token-support"
                    format="html" scope="external"><cite conref="conref.dita#conref/zosmf_config"
                    /></xref>.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_crw_j2h_h1c">
            <title>Configure JWT authentication on Grafana</title>
            <p>You must configure Grafana to accept a JWT token in the HTTP header. You can also
                verify the token's validity using a JSON Web Key Set (JWKS) stored in a local
                file.</p>
            <p>As a system administrator, when you install Grafana, you can pass values for some of
                the individual parameters in the <filepath>.ini</filepath> configuration file to
                configure JWT authentication on Grafana. See <xref href="grafana_config_parms.dita"
                />.</p>
            <p>The default location of the configuration file is as follows:<simpletable frame="all"
                    id="simpletable_fzz_3jj_31c" relcolwidth="0.5* 1*">
                    <sthead>
                        <stentry>Operating systems</stentry>
                        <stentry>Default path to the configuration file</stentry>
                    </sthead>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry><tm tmtype="reg">Windows</tm></stentry>
                        <stentry><filepath>WORKING_DIR/conf/defaults.ini</filepath></stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry><tm tmtype="reg">Linux</tm></stentry>
                        <stentry><filepath>/etc/grafana/grafana.ini</filepath></stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry><tm tmtype="reg">macOS</tm></stentry>
                        <stentry><filepath>/usr/local/etc/grafana/grafana.ini</filepath></stentry>
                    </strow>
                </simpletable></p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
