<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="ts_issues" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title>Troubleshooting issues</title>
    <shortdesc>This section guides how to analyze and address typical issues that may arise when
        using the <tm tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> RMF for z/OS Grafana plugin.</shortdesc>
    <refbody>
        <section>
            <p>This article is regularly updated with the latest information on discovering and
                solving issues that may arise. You can search through the article to find the
                precise information you need.</p>
            <p>You can open a case by navigating to <xref href="https://www.ibm.com/mysupport/s/"
                    format="html" scope="external">IBM support</xref> if you cannot find any
                solutions for the issue you encountered. Before opening a case, gather all the
                required information and provide the details to IBM support for further
                investigation.</p>
            <p>The following table describes the details of issues and the resolutions you can apply
                to fix the problems:</p>
            <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_vjv_yxq_31c">
                <tgroup cols="3" align="left">
                    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
                    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
                    <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Issues</entry>
                            <entry>Cause</entry>
                            <entry>Resolutions</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry>RMF Time Series dashboards do not plot the Monitor 3 metrics
                                data, whereas RMF Reports and RMF Charts dashboards plot
                                correctly.</entry>
                            <entry>The proxy settings configured by your network administrator block
                                web socket connections from the Grafana server.
                                <lines id="lines_mvl_xty_31c">The <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/plugin_name"/> plugin streams time series data to the clients through web socket connections.</lines></entry>
                            <entry>Unblocking web sockets and configuring the appropriate proxy
                                settings is necessary to ensure that web sockets with the name
                                    "<systemoutput>ws</systemoutput>" in the URI work correctly with
                                the <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/plugin_name"/>
                                plugin.<lines id="lines_mdt_3yq_31c">You can contact your network administrator to modify the proxy configuration settings.</lines></entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
        </section>
    </refbody>
</reference>
