<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="visual_grafana" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title>Visualization of RMF Monitor III metrics in Grafana</title>
    <titlealts>
        <navtitle>Overview</navtitle>
    </titlealts>
    <shortdesc>Grafana is a platform for monitoring and visualizing data. It enables users to
        create, explore, and share dashboards that are interactive and customizable. The <tm
            tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> RMF for z/OS Grafana plugin provides effortless analysis and
        visualization of <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/rmf_full"/> (<ph
            conref="conref.dita#conref/rmf_short"/>) Monitor III metrics and reports within the
        Grafana platform. Thereby, you can monitor and analyze the health and performance of
        applications.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>The <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/plugin_name"/> plugin provides the following
                features:<ul id="ul_g42_chq_pyb">
                <li>You can choose various visualization options, such as graphs, charts, panels,
                    and reports, to help you understand your data's trends, patterns, and
                    variances.</li>
                <!--<li><ph conref="conref.dita#conref/plugin_name"/> plugin consists of RMF Chart dashboards, RMF Reporting dashboards, and RMF Time Series dashboards.</li>-->
                <li>You can create dynamic and engaging dashboards by piecing together various
                    panels, each displaying a unique visualization. </li>
                <li>You have the freedom to customize each panel based on your requirements,
                    including its appearance, size, and the data queries it displays.</li>
                <li>Grafana supports integration with numerous data sources, which helps you fetch
                    data from various <ph conref="conref.dita#conref/dds_full"/>s (<ph
                        conref="conref.dita#conref/dds_short"/>) and display it in a unified
                    dashboard.</li>
                <li>You can set up alerts based on specific conditions or thresholds in your RMF
                    data. Grafana can trigger notifications via email or other communication
                    channels when these conditions are met.</li>
                <li>You can define a dashboard variable to change the RMF data displayed in your
                    dashboard simply by selecting a value from the drop-down list at the top.</li>
            </ul></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
